YouTube's just released this new
feature, and if you use it wrong, it
could potentially wreck the performance
of your business's content. However, if
you use it the right way, we maybe have
a game-changing feature that's going to
enable you to learn three times faster
than before, which means three times
faster the results. So, in this video,
I'm going to show you what it is and how
to use it so you don't completely wreck
yourself. All right, so what is the new
feature? Well, a while ago, YouTube
added the ability to split test
thumbnails. And I was over the moon with
this because for years you had to upload
a video, wait a few hours, check the
numbers, and then manually swap
thumbnails until you worked out which
one was the best performer. And that
wasted a lot of time. But when they
brought in split testing, you could now
upload three different thumbnails. And
YouTube would test them against each
other for you and then set the winner.
And now they just started rolling out
split testing for titles on mass, which
will look like this in your YouTube
studio when you go to upload a new
video. But that is where the problem
comes in. So, let me show you how this
works and why it might wreck your
video's performance using it. So, a
split tester works like this. Let's say
you've got three different titles that
you think you might want to use, but you
can't pick and you're not sure which one
your viewers might like the most. So,
you put them in and then when you launch
your video, YouTube is going to slice
your audience up into three different
sections. So, a third are going to see
title option A. the next third title
option B and the next third title option
C. And then YouTube's going to start to
measure the results so that it can then
set the best performing title for you.
But how does it measure results? Well,
most people think, "Oh, surely it should
measure what's got the highest
click-through rate." But it doesn't do
that. It actually measures your
performance based on the watchtime
share. Now, this makes sense because you
can clickbait people and that will then
make your click-through rate go up, but
it doesn't mean your video is better. It
often means it's worse. So, YouTube uses
watch time as the ultimate signal to set
your winner here, because that is a sign
the video got clicks, but also matched
and exceeded your viewers's
expectations. And if you don't know why
that matters, well, matching and
exceeding a viewer's expectations is
like one of the secrets to success on
YouTube. and I'll point to a video at
the end that will teach you more about
that. When YouTube's got enough data, it
sets the winner and then that's what
everyone sees. Now, if you're a big
channel, this is going to work really
quick. If it's a small one, it could
take days because you have less data.
But here's the massive issue with this.
And it's not split testing thumbnails.
It's not split testing titles. It's
split testing the combination of both.
So, let me show you what I mean. So,
imagine I have these three thumbnails
that I want to split test. They all have
different words in. And then I have
these three titles. In theory, that
sounds good, right? But let's say it
makes this one the winner. Now, we have
to establish why did that win? Was it
the thumbnail? Was it the title? Or was
it the two combined? And the problem is
when we're split testing two things at
once, we don't know. So, it kind of
defeats the whole point of a split
tester. And then it stops us from
getting that lesson is absolutely key to
then enable us to repeat it on our
channel so that we grow. So, the
individual title test is great. And the
individual thumbnail test is great, but
combined, I don't think you should ever
use this. So, what do you do instead?
Well, it's simple. Either pick three
different titles to test with the same
thumbnail or three different thumbnails
to test with the same title. And then,
if you like, after the test has picked a
winner, you could then run another test
testing the thing that you didn't start
with. But which one do you test first,
your thumbnail or your title? Well, I
don't think there's a simple black and
white answer for this. And for me,
here's what I'm going to do. I'm usually
way more confident in my titles and my
thumbnails. So, I'm going to start on my
thumbnail test. If the video is doing
well after my test ends or even during,
I'm not going to do a title test. I'm
just going to leave it. Like, I don't
think we need to use these features just
because they're there. If the video
isn't performing as I'd hoped, then I
might run a title test to try and pick
up the views with the winning thumbnail.
But, if I'm honest, this starts to get
way more complicated again. So although
I think it's a fantastic feature, it's
bringing in complexity which I think is
going to swamp beginners and maybe cause
more problems. So all I would say right
now is that the most important thing
that you can learn about isn't how to
use the split tester. It's actually how
to come up with packaging that increases
your video's watch time. So, watch this
video next where I'm going to show you
how to match a viewer's expectations and
how to make a video style that's going
to get them to the end and grow your
channel and increase your watch time so
you can grow your business,